docs(release-notes): add RN v5.0 and Migration Guide v5 (#472)
db-ux-design-system/db-ux-design-system.github.io: content/pages/documentation/releases/migration-guides/v5.mdx

import GuidelineExample from '@template/components/GuidelineExample/GuidelineExample.astro';
import CardTeaserRow from "@template/components/CardTeaser/CardTeaserRow";

{/* TODO: GitHub Link für Dev Release ergänzen */}

<DBSection spacing="small" width="auto">

## 💻 Development Release

Please refer to the notes on <a href="https://github.com/db-ux-design-system/core-web/releases/tag/v5.0.0" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">GitHub</a>.

</DBSection>

<DBSection spacing="small" width="auto">

## 🎨 Design Release

All issues included in this release are linked at the bottom of the page.

</DBSection>

<DBSection spacing="small" width="auto">

### Refactoring

The following refactoring requires special attention. Existing instances must be reviewed after updating.

<DBNotification semantic="critical" variant="standalone" headline="Important">
Copy all contents from your instances **before updating the components** – updates may reset existing content.
</DBNotification>

<YourAction
	actions={[
		'Review all instances of Accordion, Drawer and CustomSelect in your designs.',
		'Copy all contents',
		'Update the component instances',

> 		'Paste the copied content into the new Children Slot.',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		'1. Review all instances of Accordion, Drawer and CustomSelect in your designs.',
		'2. Copy all contents',
		'3. Update the component instances',
		'4. Paste the copied content into the new Children Slot.',
```

Macht es vielleicht übersichtlicher?

	]}
/>

#### Accordion

> - **Children Slot replaces 🛟 Accordion List helper component:** Accordion Items are now placed directly inside the Accordion via the slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Children Slot replaces _🛟 Accordion List_ helper component:** Accordion Items are now placed directly inside the Accordion via the slot.
```

		description="Step 1: Copy the content from the Drawer Children before updating."
		fullWidth
	/>
	<GuidelineExample
		figmaUrl="https://embed.figma.com/design/xd4zXUd4RKGv1dGdJIaaCV/Doku--Migration-Guides?node-id=45-92&embed-host=share"
		description="Step 2: Update the component and delete the default Children content."
		fullWidth
	/>
	<GuidelineExample
		figmaUrl="https://embed.figma.com/design/xd4zXUd4RKGv1dGdJIaaCV/Doku--Migration-Guides?node-id=45-101&embed-host=share"
		description="Step 3: Paste the copied content into the new Children Slot."
		fullWidth
	/>
</div>
</DBSection>

<DBSection spacing="small" width="auto">

### Refinements

The following refinements require special attention. Existing instances must be reviewed after updating.

#### Card & Popover

- **Default slot visibility aligned with system standard:** The "Start Slot" and "End Slot" now default to hidden (Show Slot = false) when empty, matching the standard behavior across all components. If your designs rely on visible Start or End slots with content, they must be re-enabled after the update.

<YourAction
	actions={[
		'Review all Card and Popover instances that use Start Slot or End Slot content.',

> 		'Re-enable slot visibility (Show Slot = true) where Start or End content is needed.',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		'1. Review all Card and Popover instances that use Start Slot or End Slot content.',
		'2. Re-enable slot visibility (Show Slot = true) where Start or End content is needed.',
```

	]}
/>

#### Scrollbar

- **Scrollbar now uses the Resizer component:** The Scrollbar internally uses the new Resizer helper component. If you have modified the Scrollbar handle size or free position (e.g. in a CustomSelect dropdown), those changes are reset after updating.

<YourAction
	actions={[
		'Review all instances where the Scrollbar was customized (handle size, free position), e.g. in CustomSelect dropdowns.',

> 		'Reapply custom Scrollbar modifications after updating.',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		'1. Review all instances where the Scrollbar was customized (handle size, free position), e.g. in CustomSelect dropdowns.',
		'2. Reapply custom Scrollbar modifications after updating.',
```

	]}
/>
</DBSection>

<DBSection spacing="small" width="auto">

### Removed

The following components and subcomponents were deprecated in v4.6 and are now fully removed. If you have not migrated yet, immediate action is required.

#### Slot Helper Components (Accordion Item & Tag)

- **Deprecated slot helper subcomponents removed:** The dedicated slot helper components for Accordion Item and Tag have been removed. Use the native Figma slot mechanism directly.

<YourAction
	actions={[
		'Identify any remaining instances using the deprecated slot helper in Accordion Item or Tag.',

> 		'Replace them with the current component versions using native Figma slots.',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		'1. Identify any remaining instances using the deprecated slot helper in Accordion Item or Tag.',
		'2. Replace them with the current component versions using native Figma slots.',
```

	]}
/>

#### Card, Popover, Drawer & Section

- **Deprecated component variants removed:** The old component variants (using the slot helper component) have been removed. Use the current versions with native Figma slots instead.

<YourAction
	actions={[
		'Identify any remaining instances of ❌ Card, ❌ Popover, ❌ Drawer, or ❌ Section (Deprecated) in your designs.',

> 		'Replace them with the current component versions using native Figma slots.',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		'1. Identify any remaining instances of ❌ Card, ❌ Popover, ❌ Drawer, or ❌ Section (Deprecated) in your designs.',
		'2. Replace them with the current component versions using native Figma slots.',
```

---
layout: '@template/layouts/documentation'
sectionSpacing: 'small'
sectionWidth: 'auto'
title: 'v5.0'
headline: 'Migration to v5.0'
description: 'The update to v5.0 introduces refactored Drawer, Accordion, and CustomSelect components, removes components deprecated in v4.6, and aligns default slot visibility in Card and Popover.'
align: start
order: 4
toc: true
tocMaxDepth: 3
---

import { DBSection, DBNotification } from '@db-ux/react-core-components';
import YourAction from '@template/components/YourAction/YourAction';
import GuidelineExample from '@template/components/GuidelineExample/GuidelineExample.astro';
import CardTeaserRow from "@template/components/CardTeaser/CardTeaserRow";

> {/* TODO: GitHub Link für Dev Release ergänzen */}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Der Link in der Sektion `## 💻 Development Release` ist bereits der richtige.
